---
layout:     post
title:      Array
subtitle:   review notes
date:       2020-05-06
author:     GSL
catalog: true
tags:
    - Data Structure
    - Array
---

>Review notes. I will review data structures in Java recently followed courses on educative.io


## Array Declaration
To declare an array, you have to specify the data type and name of the array.<br>
datatype arrayName [size]; (int myArray1[];)<br>
or <br>
datatype[] arrayName;  (int[] myArray2;)<br>
For now, no actual array exists. To link these reference variables with the actual physical array, we have to create one using the new operator.
## Declaration and Initialization in One Step
 int[] myArray = new int [4]; <br>
 or int myArray[] = new int [4];<br>
 This will create a space to store four int values contiguously. If we don’t specify the values of an array, it will be automatically initialized to 0.
## Adding or Updating Elements in an Array 
To add or update the element in an array, we specify the particular index and assign the new value.<br>
arrayName[index] = value;<br>
####  Trying to access the element outside the array size will generate an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException.
## Adding Elements using Array Literal 
// Initialization, Declaration and Adding Elements in one step<br>
int[] myArray = {10,20,30,40};<br>
## How are arrays stored in memory?
Arrays are stored in the memory using a reference pointer, which points to the first element.<br>
The only drawback of using arrays is that we have to specify the size of the array during the time of instantiation. That means the size remains fixed and can not be extended. If we want to add more elements, we will have to create a new array, copy all the items from the old array to the new one, and then insert the new element.

## Two Dimensional Arrays
It is important to note that in 2D arrays, all values must have the same data type.<br>
int [][] my2DArray = new int[3][4];

## Challenge 1: Remove Even Integers from an Array

